Student ID:

2520796 * NOTE: These are _not_ essay questions.
 *       Short 2-3 line answers are perfectly sufficient in most cases.
 */0.

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.


1.	How many colours does each format support?	
		GIF: 8 bits per pixel for each image, up to 256 color chosen from the 24-bit RGB color space.
		JPEG: 24 bits per pixel, 16 million colors. Grayscale JPEG: 8 bits per pixel. JPEGs do not support transparency or animation.
		PNG: 24 bit color like JPEG, 16 million colors.
		BMP: 32-bit color, or over 4 billion colors.

2.	Which, if any, of the formats support animation? 
		GIF, supports 8 bit color and 1-bit alpha.
		GIFV
		WEBM

3.	What is the difference between lossy and lossless compression?
		Lossless compression: every single bit of data that was originally in 
        	the file remains after the file is uncompressed.
       	 	Lossy compression: the file is reduced by permanently eliminating 
        	certain information, especially redundant information.

4.	Which of the formats are lossy compressed?
		JPEG and GIFs are lossy. PNG and BMP are lossless

5.	What happens, technically speaking, when a file is deleted on a FAT file system?	
		When a file or directory is deleted under a FAT filesystem, the system modifies the filename's
		first character within the file's directory entry to signal that the file has been deleted and that the diretory entry can be recycled.
		The remainder of the directory entry information remains intact. 
		The pointers are also changed to zero for each cluster used by the file.(the actual file information is never touched).

6.	What can be done to ensure (with high probability) that deleted files cannot be recovered?
		The most common techniques for properly sanitizing hard drives and ensure deleted files cannot be recovered are:
		1)Physically destroying the drive, rendering it unusable
		2)Degaussing the drive to randomize the magnetic domains most likely rendering the drive unusable in the process
		3)Delete all data and then rewrite it several times over again so all the original bit and bytes are overwritten.(reformat hard drive)

7.	What is stdint.h?
		stdint.h is a header file in the C standard library introduced in the C99 standard library section 7.18 to allow programmers to write more
		portable code by providing a set of typedefs that specify exact-width integer types, together with the defined minimum and maximum allowable 
		values for each type, using macros .

8.	What’s the point of using uint8_t, uint32_t, int32_t, and uint16_t in a program?
		Those are unsigned and signed integer types from stdint.h. using properly-described types makes the code far less difficult and safer to port 
		since you may not get any surprises while one system translates int as 16-bit and another as 32-bit. When you use them you get what you type.

9.	How many bytes is a BYTE, a DWORD, a LONG, and a WORD, respectively?
		BYTE: 1 byte (8 bits)
		DWORD: 4 bytes (32 bits)
		LONG: 4 bytes (32 bits)
		WORD: 2 bytes (16 bits)

10.	What (in ASCII, decimal, or hexadecimal) must the first two bytes of any BMP file be?
	(Leading bytes used to identify file formats (with high probability) are generally called
	"magic numbers.)"
		The first two bytes of any BMP file must contain ASCII B then ASCII M 
		For example the first two bytes specify the file is a bitmap with the words "BM", or the hex 0x4D42
	
11. 	What’s the difference between bfSize and biSize?
		bfSize describes the entire file(BMP) size in bytes (14 bytes)
		biSize is the size of bytes in the info header (BITMAPINFOHEADER(structure)). (40 bytes)

12. 	What does it mean if biHeight is negative?
		If biHeight is postive, the image is bottom up. 
		If biHeight is negative, the image is bottom down. 

13. 	What field in BITMAPINFOHEADER specifies the BMP’s color depth (i.e. bits per pixel)?
		biBitCount specifies the BMP's color depth(the number of bits per pixel).

14.	Why might fopen return NULL in copy.c:34?
		fopen will return a NULL pointer if it cannot open the file. This can happen if there is not enough memory or the file cannot be found.

15. 	Why is the third argument to fread always 1 in our code?
		The fread's third argumend is always 1 because we iterating over every pixel.
		(or) It determines the number of elements fread will read. We are reading one file so is always 1.

16.	What value does copy.c:67 assign padding if bi.biWidth is 3?	
		If (biWidth = 3)
		int padding = (4 - (biWidth * sizeof(RGBTRIPLE)) % 4) %4 = 3.
		This ensure that the numbers of byts in every row is a multiple of 4.

17.	What does fseek do?
		fseek function is used to set the file position indicator for the stream to a new position. It allows us to change the offset of a pointer.

18. 	What is SEEK_CUR?
		SEEK_CUR specifies that the offset provided is relative to the current file position.

19.	Secret_Revealed 
		Is Fozzie Bear from The Muppet Show!!!